>> Speaker 1: So, the data to view
function is gonna have not only as we can
see in line 8 and 9 there,
where we convert our data to our text
content based on the underlying data,
whatever it is.
We also based on our underlying data,
going to convert that data to the buckets,
the containers that are gonna
have that data in on the view.
Now, we can see the input is
unconditionally showing up every
single time.
That's not determined by posts.
I mean, it is implicitly, if post is there
under all conditions, display JS input.
Any state of post, display JS input.
Any value in post, display JS input.
JS div only display, if post is not will,
if post is will JS div's
empty string won't display.
We are explicitly making all of our view,
everything the user sees,
dependent on underlying data.
No hiding from that data, no hiding from
our data, yes, no hiding from our data,
it's the cause of everything the user
can possibly see and change.
Now it'd be fair, we could say, well,
hold on, if we know we're not gonna change
input under any condition,
just put that back on the HTML directly.
It starts to become like, firstly, who
knows, someone else on the team decided to
actually do want to have the input field
under certain conditions be removed or
added or whatever it might be or focus
state change on it or something like that.
So, in the end,
one was everything we could change, but
also it's like once you start going into
this mode, why not have a full description
of what you wanna have
displayed within this function.
Put it all there, single source of truth
for anything that can be changed and or
is just being displayed viewed by
the user that depends on underlying data.
Even if the underlying data is in
all conditions or the value of post,
undefined, empty string, text in it,
always keep the input field there.
Now, the other change we gonna make,
the handle input function is being added,
no change.
With this, we are going to have
to rather than have our input and
div, they're automatically from HTML.
Essentially implicitly starting with
div input as true as present and
then switching them off, which now we
have to reason about their change.
Instead, we're going to only create
them if we want to have them
displayed at that moment.
So now, we're not gonna have
HTML producing idea of an input,
instead it's gonna be produced inside
the standard of view function.
Meaning there's that
interesting line in line 12.
I say interesting cuz it's
such a strange wording.
I mean, I'm not gonna,
if you think anyway.
We're going to take whatever
is currently on the page and
then re-add it or add it or
not only based on the underlying
data in that moment that the data
to view function is being run.
So we're therefore using this
replace children method on the body
getter setter property on the document
object that gives us a link to.
We've kind of mastered from for now, but
all elements on our page are actually
going to be children a sub elements of a
body object that describes the overall or
represents the overall page
that the user can see.
And what we're gonna do is have each of
input div and script technically be added
or input in div technically be added as
sub elements as nested elements in body.
And note, whereas with HTML,
we got to add them automatically to body,
we didn't even say,
I probably should have said at some point.
They got added automatically as children
of body and sub elements as nested
elements of body and
therefore showed up inside of that page,
right there sub elements of their nested
elements a body and this is body.
Then these div in input show
up inside of it on the page.
We did that automatically via HTML.
With JavaScript we're gonna need
to manually add them as sub or
nested elements,
which is replace children.
If they're not yet on there, or there's
anything on there, replace children is
adding, if there's already something on
there, it's switching out for the new.
Okay, so we're gonna start walking through
this but Mark, do you wanna ask or
do wanna have that question shared?
>> Mark: I asked if they still
wanted their questions, I asked and
nobody said anything.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, yeah,
so we're doing thumbs.
I'm so sorry.
We got to do a whiteboard.
Whiteboard wipe down.
Let's have thumbs,
everyone's thumbs out for the big picture.
>> Speaker 1: Why has got very cool,
very cool.
Phil has a clarification, brilliant.
Ian is a wonderful, I don't even
know how to do the fractions there.
You've got 25% of 75%, excellent.
I'm really pleased to see it.
Paul's got some clarifications
just as he's got them.
Beautiful, let's start with Phil's.
>> Phil: Just a quick question on the
previous example that we just diagrammed
with the remove function
[INAUDIBLE] remove method and
then how that's updating
our actual C++ DOM.
Now this may be kind of inconsequential
but the div that we removed,
the structure of the DOM
after we removed it.
Is it because we've transitioned that
div node to a different part of the DOM?
Or is it because we've updated
a property associated with
that div that indicates that this is no
longer actually being rendered to the DOM?
>> Speaker 1: Wow, what a great question.
We'd need to look at the actual
implementation of that to see.
I would be curious, we have to
look at the exact implementation,
but what we'll find is that
these sort of selector queries
will not be searching for these elements.
Would that imply the best way is to
remove, move a reference to it to
somewhere else, or as you say,
set a flag of do not render.
My question would be,
surely if it's still there,
that every traversal
would require skipping,
essentially, it would seem
unlikely that the best.
But, it's interesting to think,
because you'd have to imagine
the designers have assessed.
If I'm asking for
the children of a, let's say,
a set of a given DOM node, and
I'm going to have elements in that,
that I'm gonna need to check should
I count them as relevant children.
Or are they not actually children on
the tree directly on the actual displayed
because they wouldn't show up,
if you were to remove the children
will no longer include that div.
Is it more performant and is it more
typical that we'd be needing to skip and
it's more performant as well as skip when
we count how many children there are?
Or is it more performant
have it fully removed so
that we're not having to
re-evaluate that every time?
But that's gonna be an implementation
decision of a designer.
I think likely,
one would want to update the,
they call this the tree that render tree
the elements that are gonna be displayed.
I would imagine you're gonna wanna have
that mirror what's being displayed and
unattached DOM nodes.
Partly because if we don't have a label,
if we were to reassign JS div to
an empty string, then this is now
gonna be automatically what's called
garbage collected cuz at
that point it is no longer.
Accessible from either JavaScript
because none of the querying will
get reached to it.
It's no longer on the list of
elements being displayed, so
all of the document as a whole searches,
or can't reach it.
Nor is it accessible via like trying
to find the you can use what's called
traversal API methods that allow you to
look at sibling elements for example,
look at the next element along.
You can't reach the div from those once
it's not appended once it's been removed
to us in all purposes, it's been removed.
Except that because it still has
a job to reference, a label for
it with a hidden link in order this is an
error it doesn't actually get deleted only
when JSDF gets reassigned to let's say
an empty string or undefined or whatever.
Will the C++ garbage collection remove
this underlying object in full.
Great, let's have another.
Yeah Mark, please.
>> Mark: If input.value is automatically
returned by an HTML input.
Why manually set it with JavaScript?
Is there something?
Or, yeah,
why manually set it with JavaScript?
Are we leading up to something,
or did I miss the point?
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH] Are we?
It was the word HTML there
that threw me slightly.
So you can just.
>> Mark: Input.value is automatically
returned by an HTML input.
Why manually set it with JavaScript?
Are we leading up to something
>> Speaker 1: That word is I'm losing
the word HTML input?
>> Phil: They're talking about
the forms API I think that uses C++
inside the DOM to update the DOM
>> Speaker 1: To ensure that they are,
[CROSSTALK] which is what we were talking
about yesterday, which is I assume what
they're saying, right, is when we wrote
Will in here, when we wrote Ian in here,
when we wrote John in here,
it shows up for the user immediately.
In fact, it has right here on the DOM,
Will or Ian or
John as a string on the DOM in C++
immediately, and the user sees it.
We don't need to funnel it through
JavaScript to then re-display it.
Why would we possibly do that?
>> John: Isn't he talking about the change
that you made on input having in HTML
versus putting it through JavaScript?
>> Alexa: Like Create Element?
>> John: Creating Elements?
>> Speaker 1: Is that always saying?
[INAUDIBLE] No, but they talked
about value, they're talking about
the value- [INAUDIBLE] They talk
about the value gets a setter.
I think that's also interesting.
I think they're asking if Will is typed
in here or Ian is typed in here or
Alexa is typing in here.
Then it shows up for
the user right there and
then why possibly did I go
about grabbing that data?
And then redisplaying it on the DOM,
it was already there Well as we said
yesterday before we closed up and
we did get,
we dwelled on that again then if you
remember someone asked the same question.
It's not a truth,
it's not a truth, it's a move.
It's because now I am 100% sure.
I can totally not make that update.
I could totally have
>> Speaker 1: I could
totally have in my handler input,
only updated the divs text content,
because that's the only thing
that needed to be updated.
That was already said Will,
already said Ian, already said John,
already said Alexa, I already said it.
However, when you've got thousands
of elements on the page, and
I have to work out in every single user
action which bit to update on the page,
in which handler,
it's not that I can't, I can.
Exactly as the person in the audience is
raising, our friend in the audience is
raising, that I absolutely can't,
I could just leave it as it was.
But now I have to up my reasoning.
I have to work out which
bit under which condition
under which behavior by the user do
I need to update here in the DOM?
Do I need to update the div or only the
input or only the input or only the div?
I don't wanna think about it.
Instead, I only want to have
some underlying data and
then one single function that always
updates all possible dependent content,
even if actually nothing
was needed to be updated.
Even if actually nothing changed.
I would also say to our
friend in the audience,
why did I initially set text
context to an empty string?
Why did I initially set a value
of the input to an empty string?
That was empty anyway, and
these were default empty.
I did it because I don't want to have
anything displayed that is not a direct
consequence of a piece of data in
JavaScript, in this case, post.
And why?
For the simple, slash not,
reasoning freedom it gives me.
That now I know that everything
the user sees can be
directly tracked back to a piece of data.
And where's it determined from?
One function, one function that can
handle any possible piece of data.
Any possible state of the world in
this case a state of application,
not from some handler,
which actually we've got back here.
Here, we're back to our
handler handle input,
being a source of truth being a place
that determines what the user sees.
Now we're determining whether a JSDF
is there or not from a handler.
Not from our JavaScript data.
In that case, we are in a tough place.
We want one place, one function that
can funnel all of our action through,
all of our change to
the user's view through.
If the question was instead,
why are we in our code?
We're about to do now?
Why are we also creating our input there?
When that doesn't change,
under no circumstances is there
not an input field in this code?
Well, as I say, firstly, someone
else on our team could go, actually,
you know what?
I think if the user types will twice,
we're gonna make input disappear.
They need to really learn
to stop trying to type.
I don't know.
But then that means input could be,
it's part of the view that
can be changed by the user.
In theory,
we might want to enable it to be.
So put it all anything that could
possibly be changed by the user,
put it all in one function
that would depend on data.
In this case, the dependence is
post has any state, any value,
and still input will be created.
But it's still post has a value and
input is created.
It's a mental framework for thinking
about how to structure this relationship
between data and
view you know what it's gonna be?
It's gonna be everything the user sees
must be associated with some underlying
modeled out data and
then the user when they take action
gets to submit changes to that.
We write the code to do so,
the view gets updated every single time
based on just that data, nothing else.
No handler, randomly changing the view,
meaning we know exactly when the change is
happening inside that
data to view function.
And that's where we're
going to come to now.
That's what I'm doing now.
Yeah we've had some more thumbs
here please Ian, go ahead.
>> Ian: Couple questions,
first one is for document body
replace children on the slide that-
>> Speaker 1: Yeah we're about
to go to that one.
So I'll probably through
questions too after we've actually
diagrammed this slide.
>> Phil: Okay one quick clarification from
chat on this They said there's a notion
between controlled or uncontrolled inputs,
especially in react where
controlled is where you're kind of
having JavaScript take over everything,
whereas in uncontrolled is essentially
the event handler Does its work here?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Phil: Changes it fires
>> Speaker 1: Exactly, and
it does the work directly here and
the user sees.
Or are we going to kind
of take control and
update what the user sees from our data?
And that's where,
as we go through UI hard parts,
remember that a framework in full,
is gonna go, is gonna be full of smart,
intelligent engineers in different teams,
saying, excuse me,
in this edge case, could you just your
library to be able to give us the chance
to sometimes directly overwrite what
the user did and see their typing as
a submission that we then replace
with the actual data from JavaScript?
And sometimes let them do it directly and
let us have control over
whether we do that.
And those are the evolutions of libraries.
One of the reasons why, as a library
becomes like React, something used by like
tens of thousands of large engineering
teams, they can start to become.
I mean, they're just fascinating quite
heavy lifts, as engineering teams,
to maintain them, because they
are handling different edge cases for
every possible scenario, for scale teams,
meaning implementation details like this,
or not even implementation
details like this.
Sorry, not even edge cases, control being
given to the developer to determine,
do they want to have the library behave
one way or a different way becomes.
And that's where libraries can
become bloated, but by nature.
They kinda have to be because
they're dealing with so
many different versions of engineering
teams with different goals.
Alexa, go ahead.
Ian, did you get your,
do you want to just,
I know you were just about
to start a question.
It's about replace children,
we'll hold it till after.
>> Ian: Yeah, the other question was
about, like, DOM Node Purgatory.
>> Speaker 1: Yes [LAUGH].
>> Ian: Can they.
>> Speaker 1: Ian's going to be in
charge of writing the catchy names for
these things.
>> Ian: [LAUGH] Do you know off the top
of your head if they're query-able,
searchable, reference-able, or is the only
way you can access them by the access or
object you have in JS?
>> Speaker 1: Correct, correct.
Yes, Alexa.
>> Alexa: It was on the note of
the inputs, even in our case here,
is that
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Alexa: If you wanted to make the the
choice of not storing the input value in
our JavaScript until the user presses
the Enter key, or clicks a submit button,
or something?
>> Speaker 1: Perfect.
That would be a perfect case where,
why do we need to have
underlying data associated?
And that's right, people, where, remember,
we're dealing here with minimizing our
complexity with our diagrams here.
And in reality, there are.
And in this case here, we can just
change our handler and what it does.
But once you have a framework, any of the
things we're doing here will be written up
as functions that are built
by the framework to run.
And suddenly you don't have that freedom.
And that's where the pull request goes
into the GitHub repo of the open source
library and says, hey, excuse me, can you
make this function take another argument
that determines whether or not we're going
to actually update the underlying data or
let this happen directly and not
associate any data in JavaScript with it,
until maybe the user presses Enter,
for example, yeah.
And that's a library design decision.
And the point of all these libraries, and
that's why when I say one-way data binding
is standard, sure, slash three or four
other different ways it can be implemented
in every one of those libraries,
because libraries end up having one
defining way of doing something that
the creators see as being the sort of,
not best practice, even, per se, but the
paradigmatic standard within a library.
That's the paradigm of one-way data.
It's a paradigm of, I don't know,
unidirectional data flow or
a given library, but you can also have
all the other ways somewhat possible
within these libraries because they kind
of want to be the best of everything for
everybody once they get big enough.
Because it's like any app, right?
The notion of a Photoshop has to
handle all the legacy user needs,
has probably a vision originally, but
in the end bolts on 400 other features,
and the coherence starts to go.
But I wouldn't blame them for that.
That's the nature of serving
millions of different users,
each with their own historic priorities.
Paul.
>> Paul: In the new slide.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah, okay.
We're going to walk through this code.
>> Paul: And it may be answered
by your walkthrough, but
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, good to [CROSSTALK]
>> Paul: And I'm getting in the weeds.
The jsDiv,
if it will be set to a string or
an empty string, and
then you do jsDiv.textcontent,
there is no .text content on
an empty string, is there?
>> Phil: Isn't a string an object?
You can just assign any property to it?
>> Speaker 1: Mm-hmm.
>> Phil: Is it too primitive?
>> Speaker 1: [CROSSTALK] I think,
let's walk through it.
Let's see how it plays out.
Let's see how it plays out, and
that could be a problem with this,
but let's see how it plays out,
because I think it is
handle-able with the code
as it's implemented.
But again, let's see how it plays out.
All right,
let's do a wipe down on that note.
We're about to walk through a full
UI component that converts.
Component's gonna turn out
to be a funny old word.
It refers to a function that associates,
describes, captures in
full the relationship
between underlying data in JavaScript,
in this case post and what the user sees.
That is a component, a full route through,
a full pipeline through,
from some underlying data
through to what the user sees.
It is a, I guess, description in whole
of the content, what the user sees,
how it depends on underlying data, and
how the user is able to act on that data,
sorry, act on what they see,
click on it, and change data that's
then gonna update what the user sees,
the content, via a handler.
This is gonna be a full UI component.
It's only taken us [LAUGH] But hey, at
least we definitely know what it's doing.
All right.